It was a cozy bunch of buildings approximately
half block long in each
direction. The buildings were right up to the
sidewalk. The sidewalk was roughly 10 feet wide
concrete.
As you leave the campus, on the right was
University Pharmacy or something
like that. You go by that and then there was, down
the way you got to
Holick's, the cleaners and booters across the
street. Further down was the KC and They
were both headquartered over in San Antonio.
Well, they had the Army business over there. They
had a lot of business there. All right. Was the
campus theater? It was a block west toward, right.
Were they... There's a Dixie Chicken and some more
stuff in there that didn't exist. All right, Lupo
wasn't there yet, was he?
Yeah, Lou came in. He was more or less on the west
side of the street. On that corner? Yeah, he came in
there a number of times before that. Okay, you were
on an all-male campus. How often were there young
ladies coming to A&M for social events or anything
else? Well, in the fall,
if there was a home football game, then there was a
ball,
for the dance
on the Friday night, and it was sponsored by
Santa's Club, which one was it? And then after the
ball game, I was at the dance. I'll take the fact
that lots of times we just went to the dance after
the game. And that was held where? At Vince Pizza
Hall. They always did a marvelous job of setting it
up. They had a big But that would be after football
games, beginning
right in the middle of February. It would be a
constant uh social weekend every week they
uh start out with the red blood ball up at denton
this evening because a lot of the a m activities are
put into the tsc but then there'd be the cotton ball
and
Then with each of those, there'd be a Friday night
ball. So if you say a ball, then you're talking
about a Saturday night big time dance. And they
would run until they ran out of athletes. But each
regiment had its ball. And twice I was cheering on
the Coastal Artillery Ball. Then there was a
senior dance and a ring dance. Well, no. Usually
what happened about in the end of February, there
would be the sophomore ball. It might hook up to one
side or the other of the cotton ball. Anyway, there
was the sophomore ball, and then you run through
the various organizations You could have them in
there as a junior prom for the leading Friday night
dance. And then the final ball of all was the senior
ring dance. And that's when they had the big ring.
The prospective couple put
the kiss in the middle of the ring. And that's
there. Engagement. Engagement. I was chairman of
the Post-Sanctuary Ball twice and the Junior Comm
once and the Senior Engagements.
I found out that that was the spring of 43 and it was
real nice to be in those positions because I got to
go to either Fort Worth or Houston and audition in
those orchestras. Now, were there some big name
orchestras that came during those years? We
suffered a little bit
in comparison with the University of Texas. But we
had Rand Wild and we had a number of others
that were
big. They weren't Ben Miller, but they were next
number. Okay, all right. Okay, let's go back now
and lead me toward your getting called to active
duty. Well, in December of 42, they gave us, said
you're now in the Invested Reserve Corps, and
you're here to order away.
That was... later part of my first semester here as
a sophomore.
I was, I was just as adaptable to staying there and
getting all the education I could because
wherever I ended up, I'd be better off.
We went through then the year 42 and lots
of lots of all kinds of physical conditioning a
little more intense on the military science and we
kept going with a class of 43 they left in January of
43. We had gone through the summer of 42, both they,
class 43, which was us, and myself, every other 45.
We had all gone to school during the summer of 42,
and then to spring of 43. So you were
chronologically moving at a faster rate toward
degree than you would have in peacetime? Right
there I'll tell you another one of those stories
you're going to hear about. Mitchell, I mean Hart
Hall and Vassell Hall cross military walks on each
other. There was one fellow in heart that was just a
particularly obnoxious character. And you
might, you wonder a little bit on how the core
discipline itself, but this guy was just really a
first-class bad-ass. So, it got to be the middle of
the summer, the temperature was just higher in
Maryland, No air conditioning, no going, no
relief coming. And this guy, he'd come in in the
middle of the night and make a lot of racket. Nobody
would live with him if he was by himself. And he
didn't even put a mattress cover on his mattress.
He'd come in and make a lot of racket from slamming
around. And then he'd fall on the cot and go to
sleep. Well, this guy lived there a little bit
older. So they have
contrived to go over there and pick up some fine
wire and
wire it up on the screen and then line that wire
clear across over to Brazil. And they went back
then and So they waited
until the time was right. That's
when they knew he was in and the door was shut while
they pulled the line tight to the skyrocket on
there. the eyes on the sky rocket, set it off, and
that sky rocket whooshed, you know, and it went
through that screen like it wasn't anything
there. Got inside and the rockets going around and
around, all kind of fire techniques and
everything, you know, the guy screaming bloody
murder, let him out of there, you know, and finally
go boom, you know.
Now you didn't have any part in that, you just, you
were just aware of it. I just heard about that. Oh, I
tell you that. He got his couple come up. As we're
approaching 1942 and 43, did the coursework,
academic coursework that y'all were assigned,
did that change because of the war? No. No, of
course, I've taken mechanical engineering. So
you were still in engineering, and you took the
normal courses that an engineering student would
have taken. Yeah, and things progressed along. I
think we covered the social thing until the spring
of 43. Every weekend, there was two balls.
But we went into the last semester, of course, We
had no idea the school didn't need it. Well, as you
got close to the end of the semester, this would be
like, well, in March of 43, the Army sent for all of
us in the class of 44 and all of us in the class of 45 to
go and be actually inducted into the Army. Up until
then, we'd been in a reserve corps. We were
inducted into the Army. Now, how and where was that
done? Well, they put us up in different places.
There was Camp Colt, Louisiana, Camp Beauregard,
Fort Walters.
In my case, I went to Fort St. Houston, San Antonio.
In each case, why, we went to these, they had a crew
train, crew train cars and all this. When did you
leave the campus for that? Oh, one day in the middle
of the week. Did you finish, you didn't finish the
semester in spring? Oh yeah, we went back. Oh, oh,
oh, you went for that and then went back, okay.
Well, basically all we did, we went over there and
got GI uniform and all the issues. And took an oath?
Yeah. And when were you given an Army serial
number? At that time. At that time, okay. Did they
tell you when you would be called to active duty? We
didn't have any idea. We just knew it was sooner
than it had been. Okay. About that time, President
Gilchrist went into some long gone out exhausting
efforts with the Army to give us six more weeks and
it gave us
four degrees. And the President really tried. I
don't know if it was the first one. But the Army
never did do that. So on May the 6th How
did you learn you'd been called? Did they call all
your group together and read it out or did you get a
letter in the mail? I
got an order sooner or
later. I don't, you know, we were all there in a
unit, and everybody in the unit was gone, so we just
load up and go. Our units basically stayed
together until we got over to Fort Sam Houston.
Right, and did you go directly from College
Station to Fort Sam? Yeah, they had a trip coming
for us. And so you didn't go home and leave any
civilian things? You went straight. Okay. Now, by
that time, you... There was a time now between when
we had gone after the uniforms and the others, and
we knew then we were into it. All right. By this
time, you had met a special young lady. Let's
digress back off. Oh, that's way back to the NLTCU
game in 1941. All right. How did that come about?
Well... This was a court trip? It was a Corps trip to
Fort Worth in 1941.
I was there and we marched in the parade and went to
the game and we won in Canada. And when I got back
home, I had not planned to do anything. But there
was an A&M Corps dance after Texas Hotel. And these
freshman friends of mine, I was a sophomore, these
freshman friends of mine who, one of them had lived
in Fort Worth before.
There were three of them and they decided they
wanted to go to, they had dates from TSCW to go to
the dance. And they said, come on, go. I said, oh,
I'm out of my girlfriends. All my high school
girlfriends are gone. They said, oh, come on. So I
found a girl that I knew. Never had a date with her
before or since. But anyway, she accepted the
date. So those guys came by, and just fairly dark.
Now
she
was another guy's date? And I slammed that door and
said, wait a minute, I've got to put myself
together. Well,
fortunately, she and I, although I had a date with
this other girl and she had a date with another guy,
she and I really had a good time. And she was from
where? Little Rock. Little Rock. She was going to
school at Denton. Oh, she was at TSCW, okay. And
then after that, how did you all communicate with
each other? Well, the U.S. Mail had a lot to do with
it. I could get a letter in the college station post
office at 10 p.m. And she would have it at 9 a.m.
Because of the railroad. Yeah. And she could tell
you how she passed chemistry because she would
send me the formulas. And I would balance the
equations and send them back to her. And I could do
all that in the time frame. She made a good grading
counselor. And how often did you call her on the
telephone? Oh, gee. The phone was expensive and
hard to get.
I don't even think once a month. Do you remember the
first time she came to College Station? Oh, yeah.
How long after that first dance was that? Well, I
think there was a blind weekend in there, and then I
think it was three weeks later, the SMU game, and
the fellow who had originally dated her in Fort
Worth I had
invited her to come to the dance, come down for the
weekend and do a dance there at the Lansing Museum.
Well, she came over to my door and said, you know, I
don't think I'm going to have her dance. I just
don't feel like it. I said, oh, don't do that. She'd
never been here before and it broke her heart. I
said, I'll help you out. So I did. Was it normal for
the young man to pay for the railroad ticket? Well,
no. Actually, they came on a bus. It was a charter
bus out of town. It ran to all those kind of events.
And where did they stay in College Station? Well,
wherever they were. Aggie could find a place for
them. Now the Aggie paid for that. The Aggieland
Inn was a hotel directly across west from Spesa.
And it could accommodate about how many? I never
knew, but I guess more than 15. Where else near the
campus? Where else? You just had to find a
professor or... Because there was no hotel or
motel near the campus, was there? No. That's what I
thought. There was a couple of hotels in Brown, but
they were a long way away. I never had a date down
there before. Anyway, this boy had it all already
lined up, so I helped him. All right. When, in
today's terminology, when did you all start going
steady?
Well, let's just say from that time on, we kept
track of each other. All right, and by the time you
then leave for the active duty, you were serious?
Well, let's see, I guess I was. You know, we had a war
hanging over our heads all the time. But you didn't
get, did you get married before? No, we... I had
already,
in the summer of 43, I
had a lead from 14. And I went to Little Rock and told
Glenn I already knew it. And so we set up to get
married when I got my
commission. And that was November the 18th, 1943.
The other night at home with some of the fellas, one
of the fellas. We were married in Little Rock. Came
down to Fort Worth to have a couple of days.
Michigan next evening and Texas next evening. And
then two of the other fellas that were my Aggie
friends were also to be stationed at Camp Stewart,
Georgia. And so those two guys and Jane and
I drove over there to the first station. And then I
immediately applied for Air Force pilot
training, and they weren't taking any
commissioned officers. And then Jane had heard of
an engineering school at Yale, Aircraft
Engineering School, and I applied for that, and it
was accepted. So we went to Yale on the 6th of
February, 1944. And, all right. She stayed with me
wherever I was in the States until I switched over
to Japan. And you go to Japan when? I went to Japan in
the fall of 1945. Okay, so you get there, the war's
over, all right. Then you come back, let's now get
back to College Station. When do you return to
finish your degree? Well, I got, I was My time in the
Air Force, I transferred to the Air Force because
my time
in
the Air Force was, you know, it was August of 12th,
July of 12th, and I had some time to leave. July and
August of 45. And I had You may
recall those four-plex project houses that were
there on the southeast, southwest corner of
Stamford. We were extremely fortunate to get one
of those. And when was that? 46? August of 46. All
right. Tell me how things were different in 46
compared to before the war.
Well, the campus
was a big mixture. Of course, the veterans were
wearing whatever left over clothing they had. I
think they moved all of the Aggies, whatever all of
D.C. there was at the time. Well, I know they moved
the freshmen. Now, for you as a veteran, you didn't
wear any Aggie uniform after the war. Were the
project houses pretty well filled with veterans?
Oh, they were exclusively for veterans. They were
first-class, brand-new accommodations. Were
there also some trailers and other temporary? Not
on the campus. Not on the campus. OK. And by and
large, were the veterans at A&M, were most of them
Aggies from before the war that were coming back to
finish? Oh, yeah. OK. Were there ever any
incidents you remember between those of you who
went away And the 19-year-old nerd that had never
had any part in the war, were there any incidents?
No. Okay.
And was there a difference you'd felt in the
attitude of the veteran about getting the degree
compared to before the war? Oh, yeah. The degree or
determination was just immeasurable. I could
cite to you a number of cases. where a guy before the
war had done just a full report. He just didn't give
a damn about class, and somehow they let him stay
in. He didn't care what the end was up or what. And he
came back, and don't know if he didn't whiz through
getting a degree, and went on time, and went on to
have a very fine business career. The GI Bill is one
of the greatest things that ever happened. You
betcha. You betcha. The guess is that the
recipient of the GI Bill has paid back in extra
income taxes that he wouldn't have earned 27 times
as much as he receives. So that's a win-win both
ways. I only got a... I only got one semester of
living there on the campus, and I never did collect
any school tuition or airplane training or
anything like that. That's all I got. It's not
short. While you and the other veterans were
students, what were your wives doing in those
years? Well, Jan had a son that was...
Jan was... Okay, so she's busy being a mother. Were
there student wives working all over the campus?
Let's see. Tell me about silver taps during your
student days. Was it held? Where?
The givers would be up on
top of the academic building, and it would be,
they'd let them go, they'd let them go around, and
they'd let it fall out, and outside
they'd go on, and be there for the ceremony. There
was no, there was no enunciation, since
you your final semester or so you were not in the
core you didn't go through a final review as a
senior did you oh did you describe it where was it
held but
What
about Aggie Muster in those days? Very informal.
Held where? To tell you the truth, I don't remember
one on the campus. The first muster I became
acquainted with was when I was working
in Houston about 1950. And it was basically a beer
busted swimming club. So that's gotten much more
serious. Oh, yeah. It's gotten far more serious.
Were you there when some of the corrections